In this short demo, I'm going to show you how to create a new service from a YAML file
using a static port.
I still have my minikube running.
I don't have any pods, so I'm going to create a pod again.
So, I am going to do a "kubectl create" from  my first app,
I'm going to create this "helloworld".
So, this is the "helloworld" pod, "helloworld.example.com".
I am going to describe it again.
So, this starts. It has a label "app: helloworld".
For this pod I'm going to run a service, so I have "first-app/helloworld-nodeport-service"
And this is going to open "nodePort: 31000".
I'm going to use "nodejs-port", which is defined
right here in the pod definition there is name "nodejs-port".
This has a label,
"app: helloworld".
I have a selector on "app: helloworld".
So, this is going to be the service for this pod and I am specifying this nodePort.
So, rather than having a random port, I should be able to access this port
and then I'll be able to connect to the pod.
"kubectl create", this "first-app/helloworld-nodeport-service",
and then for "minikube service", the label of this service is in the metadata, "helloworld-service"
I want to know the URL
and you see, it has port 31001.
This IP I can use to connect to the app. So, I am going to do curl of this URL
and I get, "Hello world!"
Now if you're on AWS then you cannot do these commands,
but you can go straight to the nodes,
you just have to change the Security Groups.
I already showed you this in one of the introduction lectures, for AWS how you can do that.
This is just showing how you can do the same thing.
Creating a service, but with a static nodePort. If we ask the info from our services
and do "kubectl describe"
it can either say "service" or you it can say "svc", which is short for service,
and then we can describe this "helloworld-service" and this will give us some more information.
If we want to get a list of all the services, we can just do, "kubectl get svc", and then we get a summary
of all running services.
This was already here,
it's one of the services running for minikube.
This is the one we created.
So, you see here "Cluster IP",
this is the cluster IP I was talking about in the theory, this is a default cluster IP, it is a default
virtual IP that our service gets. This IP only reachable within the cluster.
This is IP that we can use to externally exit the cluster and then we see, "NodePort: 32001",
and we also see that another endpoint has been created.
So, this and points can also be used within the cluster.
So, there are multiple ways to access your app, this node port is going to be
a static way to access our cluster.
Let me delete this service and let me in and create it again.
Let's describe it again.
You see IP address is now different.
So this virtual IP changes if you don't define it in the YAML file.
So, this one for us it's not static.
This port number, because we defined it, is a static port number,
the one that we can use to configure external services to access our application in this pod.
If you would want a static virtual IP, a static cluster IP, we would also have to define this in YAML.
That's it for this demo.
I will come back to services when I am going to discuss service discovery using DNS.